# Wildlife-Simulator

The Wildlife Simulator is a program created to simulate the wildlife and environment you can expect to find in a South African game reserve from the perspective of a dashcam. The data generated can be supplemented using real-life labelled data to train accurate wildlife detection and classification networks. 

The idea behind the simulator is creating, with no manual labour required, a large amount of labelled data ideal for an object detection program. The two labelling standards generated by the program is YOLO and KITTI. The data generated is ideal for e.g. collision detection between animals and vehicles or autonomous vehicle (AV) projects.

The simulator was coded in C# using the Unity development environment. Since proprietory assets were used for the animals (purchased rigged and animated 3D models), the full source code can't be made available on GitHub.

## Reference

For more information on our work, feel free to read our paper introducing the simulator. If you used any of our work, please remember to cite this repository. This project is licenced under an MIT software license.
```
@inproceedings{Ferreira2020,
  title = {Dashcam based wildlife detection and classification using fused data sets of digital photographic and simulated imagery},
  author = {Bianca Ferreira and J. Pieter de Villiers and Allan de Freitas},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Information Fusion},
  pages = {},
  year = {2020}
}
```

## Data format

The simulator stores a single video stream, or simulated case, as a sequence of images. Information of the simulated environment is recorded and stored for the video stream as a whole, as well as information for only the individual images.

The simulator stores data:
- **Per case:** Information about the car speed, the number of animals in the frame, the time between frames, etc. See the tables below for more information.
- **Per image:** The standard YOLO and KITTI labels for object localisation in the individual images.

The folder structure generated by the simulator in the "Save folder" looks as follows:
```
<Save Folder>
	| case_0001.txt
	| case_0002.txt
	| ...
	| <images>
		| 000.jpg
		| 0001.jpg
		...
	| <labels>
		| 0000.txt
		| 0001.txt
		...
```
Note that if the "Save folder" selected already has data stored in it generated by the simulator, the numbering of the cases and images are continued where the previous simulation ended. This means that the simulation can just be continued if it crashed or more data is required.

There are four animal classes represented in the simulator. The classes are named and indexed in the label files as follows:
- 0 = buffalo
- 1 = elephant
- 2 = rhino
- 3 = zebra

## Issues

For now the program is in a beta stage. Some known errors include:
- Random crashes that occur possibly due to either a lack of memory or problems with colliders.
- Some problems with the AABB method of automatically generating bounding boxes. This creates offset or empty bounding boxes. See some examples of incorrect labels.
